Well, obviously our text today deals with the refreshing way that Jehovah deals with us and
While I was researching this I came across a
Unwatched our article. It was back in 1998 and it covered the subject of respecting and dignifying others and being
refreshing to them
But it was sobering because on the very first page of that article there was a picture of a slave ship and
And I wondered, well, why is that there? Well, the article commented
The slave trade was among the darkest episodes and man's inhumane treatment of his fellow man
One of the most egregious examples of man stripping another man of his personal dignity and respect
Not refreshing at all
stripping a person of dignity and respect is devastating
But the interesting thing is that though the atrocities connected with the slave trade
are abolished in most lands
Well the stripping of human dignity it still exists today, but it's just more subtle
The world is ruled by Satan the devil and he wants nothing more than to put us on that ship
stripping us of our personal dignity and respect
Many of our brothers and sisters who work secularly they have to deal with this every day
Some of our brothers are persecuted around the world
Satan tries to strip them of their dignity
He takes our loved ones away from us so that we feel lost and hopeless
And through sickness and old age and other unpleasant human experiences
He tries to make us feel worthless and unwanted
He wants to strip us of every ounce of dignity that we have
Not at all to be refreshing
And that's why our text today is so refreshing
Note the contrast of how Jehovah and his organization treat us and how we feel as result of that treatment
If you're still in Deuteronomy 32, let's read verse 2 in its entirety
It says my instruction will fall as the rain
My words will trickle as the dew
As gentle rains upon grass and as copious showers upon vegetation
That's refreshing
Do is a pretty amazing thing
It's an atmospheric phenomenon
Jehovah has designed the atmosphere so that when it cools during the night under certain conditions
It reaches what is known as the dew point
This is the temperature at which the air can no longer hold onto its moisture
And so it deposits it onto surfaces that are cooler than the surrounding air
One article said this about dew
In a way it seems as if the greenery has shed tears of joy in greeting the sunrise
That's pretty refreshing
And isn't that a beautiful word picture of how Jehovah refreshes us with his word
As these gentle principles permeate and penetrate our mind and heart
You know Jesus is a perfect reflection of his father Jehovah
And Jesus extended to us a very refreshing invitation familiar to us
It's recorded in Matthew 11
28 and 29
You remember it
Jesus says
Come to me
All who are toiling and loaded down
And I will refresh you
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me
For I am mild tempered and lowly in heart
And you will find refreshment for yourselves
For my yoke is kindly and my load is light
So when we feel distressed
Jesus says
Come to him
Jesus says I will refresh you
And in fact
Jesus is saying
Let me take you for a walk in the dew
So that you can find the refreshment that you need
Now there are an abundance of examples of how Jesus refreshed others
One of the most touching to me
Was the example of when Peter encountered Jesus
After
His denial of Jesus
It's a familiar examples
But it touches me because you can empathize with Peter
Sometimes
I have said and done some of the
Dumbest things
But you can't take it back
You can't change it right away
And no doubt Peter felt that way
When he denied Jesus
That account is recorded in Matthew chapter 26
Jesus was of course reaching the end of his life on earth
And he was providing his disciples
And his apostles with some excellent counsel and admonition
And chapter 26 verse 31
He tells them that they're all going to stumble
In fact
It's prophesied that this is going to happen
But Peter says in verse 33
Oh no
Oh no not me Lord
It made these others might stumble but not me
Oh no not that will never happen
Well Jesus says in verse 34
Truly I say to you on this night
Peter
Before rooster crows
You will disown me three times
But Peter says oh no
Verse 35 oh no
Even if I die
I will never disown you
Well, we know what happened
And the account says in verse 75
That after Peter's denial
He went outside and wept bitterly
Peter was depressed
And there's no evidence
That Peter ever had a chance
To explain himself before Jesus passed away
No doubt in his mind
He wondered would Jesus ever forgive me
For what I did
Peter was so depressed
Was he able to eat
Was he able to sleep
Did he want to go on living with this on his conscience
Conscience
This was no doubt one of the lowest points
In Peter's life
And you can be sure
That Satan was doing his best
To put his foot on Peter's neck
And choke all the everlasting life out of him
He sought to strip him of all of his hope
All of his dignity
All of his respect
Well a few days later Peter's sadness
Melt's away because Jesus appears before the apostles
But Jesus did something first
Very touching and very private
First Corinthians 15 5 mentions
That Jesus appeared to seaface or Peter
First then to the 12
So Jesus appeared to Peter
Evidently when Peter was all alone
Picture that for just a moment
Picture that refreshing encounter
The details of that reunion
Have not been recorded for us
They're left between Jesus and Peter
What did Jesus say when he saw Peter
Oh there's Mr. Denyme three times
I told you that you were going to deny me
Well I seriously doubt that that happened
Jesus no doubt took Peter
For a refreshing walk in the dew
He must have patiently listened
As Peter poured out his heart in sorrow and tears
More than anything else
Peter just wanted to be forgiven by his master
And no doubt
Jesus extended that forgiveness to Peter
And he shared with him some refreshing words
We don't even know what they are
But they are probably words that
Peter will remember for the rest of his spiritual life
That was probably the first good night's sleep Peter had in days
Well what's the lesson
Well today we live in critical times
Hard to deal with many of our brothers and sisters
In the field and right here in Bethel
Feel weighed down by anxieties of the system of things
Others of us are burdened with distressing personal circumstances
Will let God's word
Let the examples of faithful men like Jesus
The apostles the prophets
And others let them refresh you
Let them take you for a walk in the dew
Jehovah is reassuring us now more than ever before
That he cares about us
And he is going to personally take our hand
Through these difficult times
Also sometimes brothers will unburden themselves to us
Well like Christ lighten their load be an empathetic listener
Now we can't solve every problem but we can listen to every problem
Listening shows that we care
In preparing this material there's an outstanding article
April 2020 watch tower
The title is listen learn and show compassion
If you have an opportunity
Take time to review that beautiful suggestions
On how we can be refreshing to others